VTP migration docs (#2607)
nasa-gcn/gcn.nasa.gov: app/routes/docs.vtp.md

---
handle:

>   breadcrumb: VOEvent Transport Protocol

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  breadcrumb: VOEvent Transport Protocol Migration
```

---

> # VOEvent Transport Protocol (VTP)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# VOEvent Transport Protocol Migration
```

> VTP is a product of the [International Virtual Observatory Alliance (IVOA)](https://www.ivoa.net) that provides a mechanism for distribution of VOEvents to astronomical communities. The [Comet Python Implementation](https://comet.transientskp.org/en/latest/) and the [GCN Classic VOEvent distribution system](https://gcn.gsfc.nasa.gov/voevent.html) have been operational for many years, but are not actively being developed or maintained.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
VOEvent Transport Protocol (VTP) is a product of the [International Virtual Observatory Alliance (IVOA)](https://www.ivoa.net) that provides a mechanism for distribution of VOEvents to astronomical communities. The [Comet VOEvent broker for Python](https://comet.transientskp.org/en/latest/) and the [GCN Classic VOEvent distribution system](https://gcn.gsfc.nasa.gov/voevent.html) have been operational for many years, but are not actively being developed or maintained.
```

## The Future of VTP

> IVOA and other organizations including the new GCN, Rubin, SCiMMA, and others have moved away from VTP in favor of the distribution protocol [Kafka](client). Kafka is widely used throughout industry, is well supported, and is growing in its use in astronomy. As GCN services move from GCN Classic to the new GCN, we are planning to retire the existing GCN Classic VOEvent system as it is currently implemented in several cloud-based servers that do not meet NASA standards. The GCN team is gradually migrating to or replacing GCN Classic services in the new GCN, and is not planning any new development in GCN Classic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IVOA and other organizations including the new GCN, Rubin, SCiMMA, and others have moved away from VTP in favor of more modern, general-purpose data distribution protocols like [Kafka](client). Kafka is widely used throughout industry, is well supported, and is growing in its use in astronomy. As GCN services move from GCN Classic to the new GCN, we are planning to retire the existing GCN Classic VOEvent system as it is currently implemented in several cloud-based servers that do not meet NASA standards. The GCN team is gradually migrating to or replacing GCN Classic services in the new GCN, and is not planning any new development in GCN Classic.
```
